# Machine Learning Specialization

In this folder I've uploaded all the assignments for the [Machine Learning Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/machine-learning) from the **University of Washington**:
* "*This Specialization from leading researchers at the University of Washington introduces you to the exciting, high-demand field of Machine Learning. Through a series of practical case studies, you will gain applied experience in major areas of Machine Learning including Prediction, Classification, Clustering, and Information Retrieval. You will learn to analyze large and complex datasets, create systems that adapt and improve over time, and build intelligent applications that can make predictions from data.*"

It is basically composed of four courses, where each of them explains in detail the most trending topics in ML except for Deep Learning :(. Here is the list of courses contained in the specialization:
* **[Machine Learning Foundations: A Case Study Approach](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-foundations/home/welcome)**: "*In this course, you will get hands-on experience with machine learning from a series of practical case-studies.  At the end of the first course you will have studied how to predict house prices based on house-level features, analyze sentiment from user reviews, retrieve documents of interest, recommend products, and search for images.  Through hands-on practice with these use cases, you will be able to apply machine learning methods in a wide range of domains. This first course treats the machine learning method as a black box.  Using this abstraction, you will focus on understanding tasks of interest, matching these tasks to machine learning tools, and assessing the quality of the output. In subsequent courses, you will delve into the components of this black box by examining models and algorithms.  Together, these pieces form the machine learning pipeline, which you will use in developing intelligent applications.*"
* **[Machine Learning Regression](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-regression/home/info)**: "*In this course, you will explore regularized linear regression models for the task of prediction and feature selection.  You will be able to handle very large sets of features and select between models of various complexity.  You will also analyze the impact of aspects of your data -- such as outliers -- on your selected models and predictions.  To fit these models, you will implement optimization algorithms that scale to large datasets.*"
* **[Machine Learning: Classification](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-classification/home/welcome)**: "*In this course, you will create classifiers that provide state-of-the-art performance on a variety of tasks.  You will become familiar with  the most successful techniques, which are most widely used in practice, including logistic regression, decision trees and boosting.  In addition, you will be able to design and implement the underlying algorithms that can learn these models at scale, using stochastic gradient ascent.  You will implement these technique on real-world, large-scale machine learning tasks.  You will also address significant tasks you will face in real-world applications of ML, including handling missing data and measuring precision and recall to evaluate a classifier.  This course is hands-on, action-packed, and full of visualizations and illustrations of how these techniques will behave on real data.  We've also included optional content in every module, covering advanced topics for those who want to go even deeper!*"
* **[Machine Learning: Clustering & Retrieval](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ml-clustering-and-retrieval/home)**: "*In this third case study, finding similar documents, you will examine similarity-based algorithms for retrieval.  In this course, you will also examine structured representations for describing the documents in the corpus, including clustering and mixed membership models, such as latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA).  You will implement expectation maximization (EM) to learn the document clusterings, and see how to scale the methods using MapReduce.*"

This thorough specialization really boosted my career as a Data Scientist, I'm now working on a company (Retargetly) applying several of the algorithms I've seen in this specialization. In fact, I'm also using GraphLab as one of my predilected tools to implement recommendation systems! 

You can always reach me out to my personal email ([matlongo@gmail.com](matlongo@gmail.com)) with any doubts you have for any of these courses. What's more, I'm a mentor of the second course of the specialization, and I invite you to do the same if you really enjoy helping others with techie questions.
